Document how to migrate from Ingress to Gateway API (#25599)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/servicemesh/ingress-to-gateway/tls-migration.rst

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _gs_gateway_tls_migration:

*************
TLS Migration
*************

> This migration example builds on the previous :ref:`gs_gateway_http_migration` and add TLS

Reviewer: typo nit
```suggestion
This migration example builds on the previous :ref:`gs_gateway_http_migration` and adds TLS
```

> termination for two HTTP routes. For simplicity, the second route to ``productpage``
> is omitted.

Reviewer: Use active voice
```suggestion
termination for two HTTP routes. For simplicity, this example omits the second route to ``productpage``.
```

Review Ingress Configuration
============================

> You'll find the example Ingress definition in ``tls-ingress.yaml``.

Reviewer: Use present tense
```suggestion
You can find the example Ingress definition in ``tls-ingress.yaml``.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/kubernetes/servicemesh/tls-ingress.yaml

This example:

- listens for HTTPS traffic on port 443.
- terminates TLS for the ``hipstershop.cilium.rocks`` and ``bookinfo.cilium.rocks`` hostnames using the TLS certificate and key from the Secret *demo-cert*.
- routes HTTPS requests for the ``hipstershop.cilium.rocks`` hostname with the URI prefix ``/hipstershop.ProductCatalogService`` to the *productcatalogservice* Service.
- routes HTTPS requests for the ``hipstershop.cilium.rocks`` hostname with the URI prefix ``/hipstershop.CurrencyService`` to the *currencyservice* Service.
- routes HTTPS requests for the ``bookinfo.cilium.rocks`` hostname with the URI prefix ``/details`` to the *details* Service.

> - routes HTTPS requests for the ``bookinfo.cilium.rocks`` hostname with any other prefix to the *productpage* Service.

Reviewer: Good consistent use of periods across list items. ✨

Create Equivalent Gateway Configuration
=======================================

> To create the equivalent TLS termination configuration, you must consider the following:

Reviewer: *Must* users *consider*, or is there a different action users *must* take?

            name: tls-ingress
            namespace: default
            spec:
            ingressClassName: cilium
            rules:
            - host: hipstershop.cilium.rocks
                http:
                paths:
                - backend:
                    service:
                        name: productcatalogservice
                        port:
                        number: 3550
                    path: /hipstershop.ProductCatalogService
                    pathType: Prefix

    .. group-tab:: Gateway API

        The Gateway API uses the *hostname* term.
        The host-header-based routing rules map to the hostnames of the HTTPRoute. 
        In the HTTPRoute, the routing rules apply to all hostnames.

        The hostnames of an HTTPRoute must match the hostname of the Gateway listener. Otherwise, the listener will ignore the routing rules for the unmatched hostnames.

        .. code-block:: shell-session

            ---
            apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
            kind: HTTPRoute
            metadata:
            name: hipstershop-cilium-rocks
            namespace: default
            spec:
            hostnames:

>             - hipstershop.cilium.rocks

Reviewer 2: Note that setting the hostname like this will work in the way you expect, but maybe not for the reason you expect. :)

When you attach a HTTPRoute to a Gateway without using the `sectionName` field, then it will attempt to attach to _all_ Listeners in the Gateway. In this case, attaching to the Listener for `bookinfo.cilium.rocks` will fail because the HTTPRoute also specifies the hostname `hipstershop.cilium.rocks`, so the HTTPRoute will only attach to the `hipstershop.cilium.rocks` Listener.

However, you could also achieve the same effect by leaving out the `hostname` field from the HTTPRoute and setting the `sectionName` field in the `parentRef` to `hipstershop.cilium.rocks` (the `name` field of the Listener you want to attach to).

The example is fine as is, just thought you would appreciate the extra context.

Author: Yes, I didn't know you could `sectionName` like this - I will have to test this (all the scripts we use in the labs are like the one in the docs above).

Reviewer 2: I'll raise this in the upstream meeting, see what other people are generally using.

              - hipstershop.cilium.rocks
              parentRefs:
              - name: cilium
              rules:
              - matches:
                - path:
                  type: PathPrefix
                  value: /hipstershop.ProductCatalogService

>               backendRefs:

Reviewer 3: indentation feels off?

Author: Corrected - thanks!

                - name: productcatalogservice
                  port: 3550

Review Equivalent Gateway Configuration
=======================================

> You'll find the equivalent final Gateway and HTTPRoute definition in ``tls-migration.yaml``.

Reviewer: Use present tense:
```suggestion
You can find the equivalent final Gateway and HTTPRoute definition in ``tls-migration.yaml``.
```
